Okay,
so welcome to today's session on Xray.
My name is Steve Lewallen.
I'm the lead engineer on the Xray app.
And it's my pleasure to tell you
today where we currently are with
Xray and the Leopard Preview.
So X-Ray is a new developer
tool aimed at allowing you,
the developer, you, the QA engineer, you,
the IT support person,
to peek beneath the covers of one or
more running apps on the system and to
gain an understanding of their behavior.
It's also aimed at allowing
you to communicate that new
understanding to others on your
team and your extended team.
So today we're going to cover
the problem that X-Ray is aimed
at solving or helping you solve,
we're going to cover why X-Ray is
the solution to that problem,
a little bit about the
X-Ray architecture,
we think it would be a little bit
helpful for you to understand that,
and we're also going to cover how you
would create your own instruments.
Instruments in X-Ray are
the central theme,
they're the technology that you use to
gather data on any particular subject
matter you want in your program.
We also will discuss how
you create X-Ray templates,
and finally we'll discuss how
you use X-Ray with an Xcode.
So what's the problem?
Well, systems today are growing
increasingly complex.
We live in a world where it's great
that we can get a system with multiple
cores on even the simplest box.
We live in a world where even the
simplest client application actually
is in a client server environment.
The Windows server is
doing your graphics,
for example.
And the methods we use to
test these applications,
black box, white box testing,
they're great, but they actually cause us
to miss certain problems.
Let's say that you add some
new feature to your app,
and you and your QA engineers,
you test that feature, and yes,
it does steps A, B, and C, looks great,
doesn't crash, ship it.
Well, it may be showing other signs
of trouble that you haven't
noticed with your normal testing.
Maybe it's using more
memory than is desirable,
not leaking, but just it's now gone above
a certain threshold that you
really intended to not go.
We as developers,
we try to check these things,
but we do so many -- write so many
lines of code and add so many features,
sometimes we can miss these things
and only catch them a lot of times
just before we're going to ship,
for example.
Another problem is that you can
focus on too small of an area.
You can be looking at a particular API.
That API is beautiful.
It does everything you wanted it to do,
but when you deploy it in a
framework that others use,
it then has other side
effects you didn't anticipate.
And the tools we have,
we have great tools on
Mac OS X that are very powerful
to help you analyze your system,
your processes, the performance,
memory usage, etc.
But they are each different
and we're forced to,
as developers and QA engineers,
IT support people,
learn each of these tools individually.
And then we're also forced to
correlate the data they generate.
They may generate very powerful
data about one specific
kind of performance data,
for example, but not another.
And you, the developer,
you're forced to correlate
that data in your head,
if at all,
and that proves to be very difficult.
And finally, as we all know,
and we as Apple engineers
know every year at WWDC,
you can have an application
performance based on the
performance of your application.
And then we're also forced to
correlate the data they generate.
They may generate very powerful
data about one specific
kind of performance data,
for example, but not another.
And you, the developer,
you're forced to correlate
that data in your head,
if at all,
and that proves to be very difficult.
beautifully in the lab and
you bring it out into the real
world and it has a problem.
So it's hard to A,
forecast that problem and B,
somebody remotely will try to
describe what happened and it's
hard to understand and reproduce.
And this is just all part of this
growing complexity of systems.
So we think that X-Ray is the
solution to this complexity.
For the developer, first of all,
X-Ray provides you the ability to, well,
it makes it easier or not as difficult
to test not only your features,
but test the features
of other developers.
You may have inadvertently
affected their code.
I know I've done that.
I know other people have
done that to my code.
So it's great that X-Ray can
help you avoid those things.
It can also help you to
discover other semi-related but
not directly related issues,
things that just go out of bounds again.
And so you don't have to
always be focusing on that,
but X-Ray can sit there as
a partner with you and say,
you know, something else is going wrong.
You said this was critical
and you better look at it now.
It also allows you, X-Ray does,
to communicate to your QA engineers.
Whenever you add a new feature,
what do you have to do?
You have to go and explain how
you use that new feature to the
QA engineer so they can test it.
Well, X-Ray allows you to automate
that process and it also allows
you to automate the process when
you're discussing the process.
So it's a great way to
automate that process.
And it also allows you to
automate the process when
you're discussing the process.
And it also allows you to automate the
process when you're discussing it with
the people who do your publications,
the docs for your app.
You also, when you add a new feature,
need to describe how to use it to
them as well so they can document it.
Now you can use X-Ray to
actually show them by proxy how
to manipulate your new feature.
And it also allows you to, well,
it's like a medical analogy.
You know, you go into the emergency room,
hopefully you haven't,
but someone goes in the emergency
room and what do they do?
They hook up a heart monitor,
they look at your blood pressure,
they do all these things.
Those are the vital of a human being.
We each know that they're
vitals of our own apps.
I know that I had, before X-Ray,
built into my different apps custom
instrumentation to make sure,
oh, the major objects are going away.
Oh, we're closing down this
system when we quit.
Those sorts of things.
So you can build in some watch
points with X-Ray to help you
keep track of those vitals.
You can even pass them off
to other people so they can
track those vitals as well.
So the solution, I think,
is to use X-Ray to help you
keep track of those vitals.
You can even pass them off
to other people so they can
track those vitals as well.
The other thing that I think is
really important to this complexity
is X-Ray for QA engineers also.
They can, as you did,
use X-Ray to automate the testing.
So let's say that a QA engineer is doing
the testing on a network application,
a browser, for example,
or something else, maybe something in a
handheld device or something,
and they want to keep
the network traffic down.
They've been told that this app
should have such and such network
traffic load and that's it.
But they've also been given the task of,
you know,
a developer added some features and
I need to go through and press all
these buttons and make sure it works.
Well,
X-Ray will free them up so that they
can use their engineering skills to
think more about the other potential
problems that could arise in the app
due to the changes the developer has
made and let X-Ray press all the buttons
and do that type of manual labor.
And finally, if they do discover a bug,
they can actually say, you know what,
instead of writing this bug report,
step one, I press X-Ray, step two,
something weird happened over here,
step three, I press this other button
and sometimes it crashes.
They can actually record via X-Ray how
they manipulated the app and just send
that recording back to the developer and
let the developer just hit one button
and see it happen right in front of
them rather than trying to interpret.
I know that I've gotten bug
reports before where I say,
that's not even actually possible to do.
So I have to send it back and say,
you know, can you clarify this?
A lot of times we all get in a rush,
right, and we say, well,
I can't reproduce that, so, you know,
enough of that bug.
And then it comes up later on
and you wish you would have
spent more time looking at it.
So in addition, the debugger,
the QA engineer can use those vital
signs I spoke of earlier that the
developer created for himself or
herself and use those on the side
while they're doing these other
tests and then go back and say,
you know, Engineer A,
when I was testing your features,
the vital signs monitors that
Engineer B gave me to make sure
we're always working on them.
So if you're testing your features,
the vital signs are not working right,
they're not working so great anymore,
and maybe you want to look at your
change in light of that new information.
And finally,
for the IT support guy or girl,
you're out there maintaining a
network of machines and you want to
monitor the load on the machines,
CPU load, the network traffic,
disk usage, etc.
You can use Xray to do that as well.
You can also leverage
again those vital signs,
maybe they've been passed on to
you or maybe you're having problems
in the field and so the developer
provides these to you and says,
well, run this and tell me what it says.
And then you can also,
as the QA engineer did and the developer,
make a recording of something that
shows these things going awry and send
it back to the developer and he or she
can reproduce the problem right there.
So now I want to talk about
the Xray architecture a bit.
I want to do this because I want
you to understand that Xray is
technology agnostic as far as
what it uses to gather data.
So Xray is built out of a series
of plug-ins and a major set of
plug-ins are instrument plug-ins.
Instrument plug-ins can actually
supply more than one type of
instrument and a plug-in is usually
organized around a particular
technology that is used to gather data.
So one of the technologies I'm sure
you've all heard about is D-Trace.
So Xray uses D-Trace to provide all
sorts of instrumentation focused
right now on the file system,
for example, and memory.
If you were at the keynote
and attended other talks,
you've heard about garbage collection.
So Xray includes a D-Trace based
instrument to allow you to look at
how garbage collection is working
in your new garbage collected app.
And we also build all sorts of
other instruments with D-Trace and
in fact you can build your own.
We'll talk about that in a little bit.
We also have things that
are more familiar to you.
I'm sure you've used
our Object Alloc tool.
Now we have an instrument
based on that same technology.
We also have a great technology
from our Automator group.
This is the technology that allows us
to record things happening in an app
and replay them later and we've built
that in as an instrument in Xray.
And finally we have instruments
that allow you to look at
general resource usage,
CPU usage, disk usage, network traffic,
etc.
So I've talked a little bit and now I'd
just like to give you sort of a grand
tour of how we use Xray and so that you
can understand some of the concepts.
So over to the demo machine please.
So I've talked a little bit and now I'd
just like to give you sort of a grand
tour of how we use Xray and so that you
can understand some of the concepts.
So over to the demo machine please.
filter the data given to you by X-Ray.
So in the bottom of the screen,
in this area here in the lower half,
this is your instrument toolbox.
Now, X-Ray comes pre-bundled
with a host of instruments,
and by the time Leopard ships,
these will be richer instruments,
probably have some different
instruments as well.
In the upper left section of the
screen in the trace document,
this is your instrument's list.
So we have instruments in
the toolbox on the bottom,
but we have not yet applied
them to the trace document.
So we can't perform a trace yet.
So in order to go further
with this tour of X-Ray,
I'm going to look at the
resource usage of Safari,
something we saw some of in the keynote.
And then I'm going to go further and show
you more about each of those instruments.
So I want to look at memory usage.
And therefore, I'm going to select my
object alloc instrument.
And I'm going to drag that up to my
instruments list and deposit it as so.
I also am not interested in
the UI recorder at the moment,
that technology from the Automator Group.
So I'm going to collapse that,
make some more room for me.
Also, I want to look at file activity.
Let's say I want to see what
files Safari opens and closes.
So I'll take the file
activity instrument,
and I'll drop in an SO.
And finally, Safari is a network app,
right?
So let's look at network
activity of Safari.
And I'll drop that in as so.
Now I can actually run a trace.
To do that, I press the run button that's
square in the middle of the window.
Here.
I'll press that now.
Now I'm presented with this dialog.
Xray is asking me, well,
what do you want to trace?
Now it so happens that for
many of these instruments,
you can trace all the processes that
exist and will exist on your system or
a particular running process already.
But in this case, I have it set up,
which is the default setup,
to ask me to trace one process.
So I'm going to select Safari.
It's not running yet.
It's going to launch after
I hit the open button.
And I also want to point your attention
to a few other things in this dialog.
So we're all developers,
so oftentimes we have special environment
variables that we can set to change
the behavior of our application.
So you can do that here in
the environment variable box.
You also may have command line
arguments you want to pass.
You can do that in the Arguments section.
You can also decide, well,
when I end this trace,
I want to also stop the application.
That's the common case, so by default,
this checkbox here is selected,
"End After Tracing." So when
I press the run button again,
which will mean stop the trace,
it will actually stop
Safari in this case as well.
And finally,
Xray can actually allow you in one trace
document to trace multiple processes.
Let's say I had a new client server
solution that I was working on,
and I wanted to trace memory
usage in both of these processes.
I could use ObjectAlloc, for example,
on the client and the server,
and I could use the checkbox here,
apply to all instruments.
I could actually deselect that,
apply to ObjectAlloc instruments,
and when I hit run,
it would have asked me, "Okay,
what application do you want to
launch for the first instrument,
and what application do you
want to launch for the second
instrument?" And I would see
all of that in the same window,
which is really great,
especially since Xray provides this
over time readout that we'll see,
so you can visually even correlate the
data coming back for that solution.
And so I'm just going to
accept the defaults here,
so "End After Tracing," apply
Safari to all instruments.
I'm going to hit open.
Now it's going to prepare all the
instruments and it's starting to run.
Safari is bouncing and launching.
And when you are applying several
instruments obviously your process,
depending on the instruments,
may slow down a little bit.
In this case,
ObjectAlloc is taking up some time here,
the ObjectAlloc instrument.
But we have now Safari.
It's almost done loading.
Okay, it's finished.
And in the X-ray window now
we see to the right of the
instruments graphical displays,
one for each instrument.
This is your high-level view of the data
coming in to X-ray from the instruments.
One way you can think of this
is a navigation tool to say,
"Oh, I see a general problem
here in this graph.
Let me look at a detail view."
You can also look at
tracks in different ways.
So I have the object
alloc instrument selected.
Maybe I wanted to see the call stack
depth on each object alloc event.
That's freeze and allocs and
all sorts of different things.
So I'll select my track style popup.
You have this in each instrument.
And I'm going to say stack depth.
So now I can see the actual stack
depth of the various allocation events.
In this case,
I want to go back to the total
bytes graph because I have some
other things that I'd like to show
you in this particular instrument.
So when I select a detail
view or an instrument,
the lower part of the screen,
the trace document changes for a
detail view of the instrument selected.
So you notice it was changing as
I was selecting different instruments.
So now I have the object alloc
instrument selected again.
In object alloc,
the detail view allows me
to do different things.
I can sort on different amounts of data.
And I can see the different
categories of objects created.
When I select different categories,
the -- and I'm actually going to
stop this trace now because I want
to keep these labels here where they
are so I can speak more to them.
When I select a particular category,
I can go into one.
Say I wanted to look at
all the CF set events.
I can click the small eye
icon by that category.
I'll do that here.
And now I've drilled down into that
particular category of allocation events.
And I can see freeze, and Alex,
et cetera.
And I can also look at extended data.
Where, for example,
did these events take place?
If I press the E button,
the extended data button,
on the far right middle control
bar -- I'll do that now.
[Transcript missing]
So let's look at another instrument.
The file activity instrument
is showing me all the opens and
closes and stats on various files.
This is built, actually, with DTrace.
And I could filter this
on various types of data.
Let's say, for example,
that I wanted to look at all the opens.
So all the files that were open.
Well, I'll click on the search field
in the lower left hand corner of
the screen and I'll type open.
And I'll hit return.
Now it's filtered all the events to open.
And it's also done
something a little unusual.
It's tokenized that open string.
The reason it's done that is we
want to allow you to filter on
more than just simple string data.
For example,
if I reopen the extended detail view and
I click on various file activity events,
I see something kind of interesting.
It looks like our symbolication
here is having an issue.
Let me filter that out a moment.
This will still actually
work to some extent,
but it's unfortunate.
Okay, well,
I'm going to try to do it anyways.
Basically,
what you can do is you can select
multiple stack frames in your event,
in your stack trace viewer,
and if you hit the spyglass icon,
it will filter down to just events
that include that bit of stack trace.
I'll do that now and
the events did change,
but obviously we're getting a lot
of bad symbolic data here right now.
I apologize.
So you can filter the
data in multiple ways.
So I'll just clear and we will...
move on so another thing that uh...
Xray can do is show multiple runs
You may want to see the before and
after effects of some change you make.
So, Xray allows you to
visually compare those.
You run it, you make a change,
you run it again, see what happens.
So, if I select the show filters button,
this is this middle button,
the segment control for
various instruments,
and press run again,
Then I will see Safari will start
up again and I will see a second run
for these instruments become visible.
And actually I'm going to shrink
these down some so you can see
them all on screen at once.
So now I can select different tracks
of data and compare them visually.
So let's stop that and quit Xray and
let's go back to the slides please.
Slides please.
Okay,
so let's review the concepts that we saw.
First of all,
we learned that there's a trace
document that you pretty much live in
to trace any particular subject matter,
and you can have more than one of these.
We also learned where
you get your instruments,
those devices, software,
pieces of software code that
capture and display the data to you.
You get those from your toolbox.
You also have a list of instruments.
This is the instruments
applied to the trace document.
Those are the instruments
that gather the data.
And to the right of those
are the track views,
the graphical views
that display the data.
And finally,
we learned that you have a detail view,
and if you select a
particular instrument,
the detail view of that
instrument will be displayed.
And we also learned that you
have multiple run support.
You can see each run individually
or as a group that you've performed.
And now let's go and look at how
you create an automated test case.
I spoke a lot of that talking about
how each of the different groups of
users could take advantage of Xray.
So we're back to the demo machine
and let me start up Xray again.
And this time I'm going to apply
again our old familiar instruments.
and I'm also going to start recording.
Now when I record a master track,
I'm not gathering data for the
instruments in the list above.
So I'm going to press this record
button that is a bit to the left
of the run button we used earlier.
I'm going to press record and oh,
it's asked me, it said, you know,
your recording is unavailable.
Well, this technology comes
from our automator group.
They use the accessibility API to
make sure that they know exactly
what you are manipulating.
And so I'm going to go down to
universal access and I'm going
to enable assistive devices.
If you can't play back or record,
that dialogue should have opened up,
but if not, just go there and make
sure that that is working.
So I'll hit the record button again.
It's going to ask me to select
an app I want to record,
and I'll select the good
old familiar Safari.
And I'll do a few things.
I'll open up the bookmarks group
and I'll add a new bookmark group,
my bookmarks.
Hit enter.
Oh, I decided I didn't want to do that.
And I'll close the bookmarks
group again and I'll quit Safari.
Now, what we see are a series of events
gathered for that recording.
I'll stop the recording now.
And now I can replay the recording and at
the same time run those other instruments
that I had to gather data based on that.
So all I need to do now that I have
my recording is press the run button.
It's going to start up Safari again.
Now, the recording and playback framework
is smart enough to know that when
you're using other instruments,
the timing and such may be different
than when you made the recording.
So what it does is it keeps a
good eye out for the elements,
the visual elements that you
manipulated to be available before
it tries to replay those events.
So it's typing in my bookmarks now,
and I'll delete it.
Xcode is a new tool that
is being developed in the
Microsoft Office of Technology and
is used to automate your workflow.
You can imagine doing that for different
types of tests that you perform.
Okay,
so let's go back to the slides please.
Now just to review,
it's very simple to make a recording.
You just press the recording button,
you manipulate your app, you press stop.
Usually it's a good idea to quit your
app before you do that just so you can
make sure it's always in the same state
when you get back to replaying it.
And another thing that you can
do that we didn't see is to
actually loop the recording.
Many times a problem doesn't surface
just the first time you run it.
Maybe you have to run it a few times.
So Xray will automate
that for you as well.
You can just say loop this
recording at playback and it will
just keep replaying the recording.
That's one of the reasons it's
good to quit the app at the
end of a particular recording.
So it will play it through once,
quit the app, start it up again,
play it through, quit the app, etc.
and keep running until you hit
the problem you were looking for.
And finally,
you can save the recording in a
template along with other instruments.
So let's talk about Xray templates.
So Xray templates are Xray.com templates.
documents pre-configured with
a certain set of instruments to
trace a particular subject matter.
And they can include pre-recorded
master track recordings.
These can be anything you want,
but generally people either
have them be very general or
specific to a particular problem.
So how do you use templates?
Well,
you can save as your trace document,
select trace template,
we'll see how to do this in a minute,
and save them to disk.
Now, trace templates,
even if you have a URI recording,
which have some binary data encoded,
are basically flat XML files.
You can check this into
a source code repository,
you can email them to someone,
you check them into your own project,
etc., so you can easily
pass these around.
Xcode is a great way to pass around
custom instruments you create.
You can also double-click these
templates as if they were applications.
You don't need Xray running,
and Xray will pop up pre-configured
with these instruments.
And finally, and we'll see this
later in the demo also,
is that you can drop
these custom templates in
Library Preferences Xray templates.
The Xray templates part won't
be created on your system.
You'll have to go and do that
yourself as you have to do in
many different preferences apps.
But if you drop that in there
and then you relaunch Xcode,
you'll find that template in your
debug performance tools menu,
and you can use that with your own app.
So now let's look at the Xcode Xcode.
So I have my existing application
here in this recording that we made.
I'm going to go up to the file menu
and I'm going to say save as and I'm
going to go to desktop and I'm going
to say save this as a trace template
and I'm going to say my trace template.
So
Okay, and I will save that.
Okay, we see it appear at the
bottom of the screen.
I'm going to actually quit Xray now.
So Xray isn't running.
And I can double click on my template.
It's pre-populated with instruments
and a UR recording I had before.
And I can press the run button again.
And then again it will start up
Safari and run through the recording.
And I'll let this get started and
then I'll stop it so we can move on.
So it's launching Safari.
And it's starting to make the recording,
or starting to play back the recording,
pardon me.
Type in the keystrokes, etc.
So I'll just go ahead and quit that now.
I'll stop Xray and I'll quit that.
Okay, back to the slides again please.
So another thing that Xray
has sort of become good for is
busting your own assumptions.
Bad assumptions are caused by lack
of understanding of some subject.
I make bad assumptions about code,
I'm sure we all have.
And bad assumptions lead to bad
decisions and then that leads to bugs.
So one of the ways you can bust an
assumption is for an IT administrator.
So this demo I just
put in here yesterday,
I heard a story about this from
probably someone in this room who
passed it along to someone that
I work with and it related to me.
They're an IT administrator and they
wanted to determine the configuration for
machines that they should have deployed
in their business or the university.
And basically they wanted to
determine what's the minimum amount
of RAM and therefore what is the most
efficient set of applications based
on RAM usage that I could deploy with.
And one of the things they wanted
to look at was web browser.
was web browsers,
and I thought about that and I
It has been drilled into my head
for years and years and years,
that certain other browsers, say Opera,
are really, really memory efficient,
and nice small, compact browsers.
I thought, well,
these guys are probably going to compare
Opera to Safari and choose Opera.
I don't want to show that demo,
so obviously,
I checked this out ahead of time,
but let me do a little demo to show you
kind of the Swiss Army knife ability
of X-Ray to bust different assumptions.
So back to the demo machine, please.
So, what you can do with Xray is compare
different apps in the same trace.
So I'll use our favorite old
Object Alloc instrument again,
and first I'm going to run Safari.
And I'll open that up.
I have Safari and Opera set
to open up the same web page.
Let Safari do its thing here.
Okay, it's loaded.
Now I'm going to actually stop that
trace directly like I was doing before
by pressing the Run button again.
Now, a feature of X-Ray is to allow you
to change the conditions of the trace
after you've selected the first one.
If you hold down the Option key
and you press the Run button
again with the mouse,
it's going to bring up the
application chooser dialog again.
Now, we often use this just to
change environment variables.
I remember I was working on
some garbage collection stuff,
and I wanted to flip a flag to
switch garbage collection on and off.
That was a use of this.
But I can just also choose
an entirely different app.
So I'm going to go to my desktop here,
and I'm going to actually choose Opera.
And I'm going to launch that now.
And it's going to do the same thing.
It's going to load the Apple Start page.
and I'm also going to show
runs of the previous trace is
unlabeled but it was Safari.
It's not running now obviously in the
primary trace the top one is running.
I need to go through and I'm not
a real opera user so I need to
press this button for some reason.
So it's going to load the Apple page.
Wait until it's done.
Okay.
And now I'm going to go back and,
you know, son of a gun.
I was actually wrong.
That assumption was bad.
Safari actually, as we can see,
these are on the same scale vertically.
That's the total number
of bytes allocated.
And Opera actually took far more memory.
I'm still surprised by
that because it's just,
you know, you get drilled in your head
what is true and what is not.
And that,
those assumptions can often be wrong.
So that's an example of busting
an assumption using kind
of the Swiss Army ability,
Swiss Army knife ability of Xray.
So back to the slides, please.
So another problem,
we've all had that moment where
we're sitting in our office,
boss walks in,
and he or she clearly has this look
on their face that they're gonna tell
you something you do not wanna hear.
And we may have also had
the moment where they say,
you know, so such and such engineer has
moved to a different group or
left the company or something,
and their application is
not in such good shape.
And I can't tell you anything
about how the application works,
but we really need this fixed 'cause
we need to ship this app ASAP.
So in this scenario,
let's say that we have this vital app.
It's called the Family Slideshow app.
And yes, this is just an excuse to show
you pictures of my daughter.
But remember,
this is a critical app for the company.
And the app has this slow,
terrible animation.
So you need to figure
out why it's so slow.
First thing you say is,
this guy probably didn't
use core animation.
And you're right.
If I would have used that,
I wouldn't have had this demo.
So I had to cook something else up.
So we have this app that has this poor,
slow animation.
And we need to understand what
it does and why it's a problem.
Now, this obviously is a
very simple application.
But oftentimes,
we're just given mounds of code.
And we have no roadmap in that code,
no way to understand how it works.
So we need to use tools to help us.
And in this case,
I'm going to show you how we
could use X-Ray to help us out.
So let's go back to the demo machine.
And let's first take a
look at that demo app.
Let's just run it.
So, okay,
we can clearly see that it has very slow,
very clunky animation.
We need to figure out
why that is the case.
Now, as an Xray user,
I know that Xray comes pre-bundled
with all sorts of templates,
well, a few of them right now.
And
Maybe I can use one of those
templates to help me fix this problem.
Well, if I go under my debug menu
and look at my launch using
performance tools submenu,
I can see,
and obviously .ds store isn't a...
[Transcript missing]
Let's go and use the same UI to browse
the pre-built instrument I have.
So I'm going to cancel out of this.
And I'm going to select Read File Sizes.
This is its custom instrument.
I'm going to go back and I'm going
to say Edit Read File Sizes Type.
Now, the first thing I want to do
is work backwards from what
I want out of this instrument.
Now,
I'm going to go through some Dtracisms
and I don't want you to worry about,
you know, understanding exactly
what that Dtrace stuff is.
There's another session tomorrow
on the OS Foundations track
and there's documentation on
the web to learn about Dtrace.
But what I want you to take away
from this demonstration is that A,
you can create your
own custom instruments.
B, they have certain components and C,
how to think about building your own.
So in this case,
what I want out of this instrument
is to see the full path to
images that are being read in.
I want to see how many bytes I'm reading
out of those images and I want to see how
long it takes to read those images in.
So I need to think about what API I need
to instrument to get that data.
In this case,
I need to instrument the open API to get
the full path to the file that's being
opened and I also need to instrument
the return of that same open API so
that I can get the file descriptor
because all the other API I'm going
to use are just going to use the
file descriptor but I don't want
to look at that in the UI of X-Ray.
This pop-up here is my list of probes,
a probe per function.
So in this case,
I have a probe for the open call.
And I have some Descript that will be
performed when this probe is fired.
That is the conditions,
which in this case are very simple,
just that this API has been entered into.
You could have more complex conditions
saying this API has been entered
into and the path is so and so.
But in this case, I want all paths.
So I want to scroll
away the path passed in.
Because on the next probe of open--
but this is the return of the open
call-- I want to get the file descriptor
that's going to be returned from
open and associate that with the
path I saved off just a second earlier.
Then, as I said,
I want to also record how long
it takes to read this file in.
Well, basically,
I'm going to make some assumptions here.
I'm going to assume that as
soon as the API that's using
this file are done with it,
that they close the file.
So what I'm going to do is on the open,
I'm going to set my time array,
keeping track of how
much time is being used,
to zero for this particular call,
along with a bytes counter.
And then in the read API-- that
I'll instrument-- on its entry,
I want to record how many bytes in
sum-- so they may call this 10 times,
so add all those 10 times up-- in total
were requested to be read from that file.
And finally,
what I want to do is on the close,
when the caller that's reading all
these images closes a particular file,
I want to generate some data
that's sent back to X-Ray.
So I'm going to send
this data back to X-Ray.
And then I'm going to send
The total number of bytes in Kbytes
and the duration of milliseconds.
and what it has to say,
I don't need the URI recorder for this
demo so I'm going to get rid of it and
click on this X in that URI recorder
instrument and that's going to delete
that instrument and close that track.
I also want to use an instrument
that didn't quite make it out
the door for the Leopard Seed.
It's a sampler instrument that will A,
look at when you get spins,
an app starts spinning,
it will sample that app and also B,
you can have it set to just
continuously sample the app.
I'm going to use B continuously
sampling the app so I'll drag in my
sampler and I'm going to use that
custom instrument that I just built.
Okay,
so now I want to use this pre-configured
trace document from Xcode.
So what do I do?
Well, first thing I'm going to do
is I'm going to go quit Xcode.
So I've quit Xcode and I'm going to go
up to my file menu again and say save as.
I have the templates directory
already in my list box there.
So it's the user account, library,
preferences, Xray templates.
I'm going to give it a name.
"Slide show testing and I'm going
to change it to the trace template
file format and I'm going to save."
Now, I'm just going to go back and
check that it's actually there.
Here's templates directory
again and we see it,
slideshow testing template,
so I'll cancel out of that.
I'm going to quit Xray now.
I'm going to reopen my
project that I'm working on,
the family slideshow project.
So it opens up and now I can go
under the debug menu and say launch
using performance tool and I see my
slideshow testing template there.
So it's basically a new tool
for me to use and I could use
it for all sorts of things.
So I'm going to select
that and when I do,
Xray is going to open up and it's
going to begin playing the slideshow
app and taking those measurements.
So we still see that we have a problem.
[Transcript missing]
based on what Sampler is telling
me is this fetch image named API.
So I'm going to double click on
that and bring it up in Xcode.
And let's take a look at this API.
Well, this API is reading in an image
every single time it's called.
And it's called based
on Sampler all the time.
So we looked at the file paths
of the previous instrument.
Let's go back,
the custom one that we created.
And I can see that all these
images are coming from the
resources directory of that app.
If you know something about
Cocoa and AppKit and how it
processes resource images,
you'll know that there's a simple
API you can use to read in these images.
And it will actually cache them for you.
So I'll just go ahead
and I'll use that one.
I'll just say return and say this image,
image named.
And-- I want to use the
name without the ending.
So I'll say name, string.
I'll use code sense here.
By deleting path extension.
Yes, I want that.
OK.
And I'll comment that other code out so
that we have that for future reference.
And I'll save it.
And I'll build that again.
[Transcript missing]
and I'm going to see if
there's a better way.
Now, another great thing about
these showing multiple runs is
that that data is still there.
So I don't need to undo the
mistake that I made by using that
really aggressive simple caching.
and then rerun and gather the data again,
I can actually just go back to X-Ray,
I'll click on the previous run,
I'll look at the data again.
So what else is going on in there?
Let's use the flag navigator
again to look at other things.
The other API, it is showing me that
it has executed a lot,
is drawRect.
It doesn't do a lot here,
but it does do a lot in drawImage.
I double-clicked on that,
it took me somewhere else in
that file which is drawImage,
and I can look at this, and I can say,
"Okay, well, what's it doing?
Here's where it was making
that fetchImage name call,
so I'd cached that previously, but again,
not a great solution.
But it looks like if I would have
had this underbar image filled out,
then it would have just used that.
And so, I don't know,
let's find out more about that.
And this is the part of the demo where,
in order to save some time,
I put in some extra code, which is, oh,
this magical ability for it
to cache the images itself.
So we can pretend that
that actually wasn't there,
but in order to solve this problem,
I can actually just cache the
image in the viewer of the image.
So I'll try that.
I'll save it and I'll build it.
And I'll go back to debug and
launch my trace one more time.
[Transcript missing]
So we saw in there building custom
instruments and again I didn't want
you to get overwhelmed by gosh I don't
understand all these weird Dtracisms,
I was using self and other things.
Dtrace is really cool and has a
really great language but it's a
subject unto its own so I encourage
you to attend the session tomorrow
and read about it on the web and
experiment with it in your leopard seed.
But what I do want you to get is
the general concepts of creating
your own custom instruments.
So one of the three pieces of critical
information in that instrument
builder was describing the instrument.
This is going to represent the title,
the tool tip, the icon, etc.
that will be the
instrument in the toolbox.
So you really want something nice if
you're going to reuse this instrument.
The second thing was the conditions.
Now we had simple conditions there.
We just said when it enters or
exits an API do something else.
But you can have pretty complex
conditions that say when it enters
or exits an API do something else.
But you can have pretty complex
conditions that say when it enters
or exits an API do something else.
when it enters this API,
and I'm in this process, or that process,
and this value is
within these parameters,
then do my actions.
And then we saw the actions themselves,
and we saw two different
types of actions.
We saw the ability to
record data back to X-ray,
so we displayed in the detail view
and graphed it on the track view.
And we also saw some bookkeeping,
so we saw keeping track
of the number of bytes,
looking at how much time is
actually spent in an operation,
all those sorts of things.
You can do that with custom
scripts for different actions.
You can have multiple of
those per probe firing.
So in summary, the preview of Xray,
a new developer app,
is in the Leopard Seed now.
And you can use it today and even
better tomorrow to tackle this
problem of increasing complexity in
our world as a software engineer,
as a QA engineer,
as an IT support person, administrator,
etc.
And you can use Xray to bridge
gaps between developers,
QA engineers, and IT support staff,
leverage Dtrace to create
your own instruments,
and create your own templates
as custom tools to increase
your own developer productivity.
So for more information,
you can send an email
to Matt Formica there.
And you can also look on Sun's
website for information on
DTrace and just search the web.
You'll find a lot of information on it.
There's already a buzz about
Apple having adopted DTrace,
so that's really exciting.
I'm glad that community
is really excited for us,
and we're excited to join them.
And you can also, again,
attend the session I mentioned earlier,
which is in the
OS Foundations track tomorrow.
They're actually going to demonstrate
using DTrace on the kernel,
which is really, really killer.